>> Speaker 1: I wanted to take like take
us back a bit because we've just been
coding this whole time.
I want to talk a bit more
about some of the theory and
some of the stuff that inspires me.
And this is one artist that was really,
really came to fame I guess in
the '60s and '70s for
his wall murals and Sol LeWitt.
And the murals, they look a bit like this.
They're huge and they're in museums and
galleries, and he's done hundreds of them.
And he simply just numbers them
like to 60 or 120 or something.
And when you look at his work you
start to maybe see that it looks
a bit reminiscent of generative stuff that
you might be seeing today with code and
with creative coding.
And especially when you look at something
like this you think maybe this is done
with a computer.
But he was doing all of this
work without a computer.
I don't really think he was
using computers or code,
and this was certainly done at a time
where those tools weren't very accessible.
And the way he would do this kind
of artwork is that he would have
instructions.
And his instructions, this is a bit blurry
but I transcribed a couple of them.
But his instructions would very
much just be like do this, do this,
do this and
then you end up with the artwork.
And so, just to give you an idea for this
Wall Drawing 273, one of his wall drawings
in the San Francisco MoMA, he says, his
instructions that he gave his builders and
his draftsman is to create a six inch grid
covering the walls, lines from corners,
sides and center of the walls
to random points on the grid.
And he has different instructions for
different walls.
And on the 7th wall you do red lines
from the midpoints of the four sides.
Blue lines from four corners,
yellow lines from the center.
And so, that was kind of,
his art wasn't actually creating the work
because he wouldn't go there and paint it
and sketch it or draw it or draft it out.
He would just create these instructions.
Sometimes he'd also create a little
drawing that's just on paper with pencil
or something like that,
that he would give to the builders.
And the result of that
looks a bit like this.
And so this is actually what it
turned out to be in SF MoMA.
And the kinda interesting thing is
that every time he would give the same
instructions to different people,
they would end up with different results.
And that's because there's this
element of chance and randomness,
as well as interpretation.
How do you interpret the line width or
line length?
Is it a thick line or is a thin line,
what exact colors are you using?
And so, if we were to look at this
through the lens of creative coding and
generative art, we can actually take his
instructions just as they are exactly and
we can try and
re-implement as a bit of an exercise.
So this is what I did here.
And it looks a bit like
a bunch of random lines.
It's maybe not the most
impressive looking image.
But in the context of a virtual space, or
in his case a real mural
that's 100 feet wide or
however many feet it is wide,
it starts to look at lot more impressive.
And so I thought as I was doing this,
I was looking, and
I thought it was a kind of cool idea.
But it turns out it's not new.
Other people have been trying to create
his work with JavaScript before.
And I found this really interesting site,
GitHub Repo.
You can just go to their site,
solvingsol.com.
And it has a lot of different examples
of actual instructions that Sol LeWitt,
back in the '60's or
'70's would have written.
Like this one is squares divided
horizontally and vertically into equal
parts, each with lines in four
directions superimposed progressively.
And somebody has tried to re-implement
that instruction with JavaScript and
with code.
And so, it's kind of an interesting thing,
because at his time he was giving
it builders and giving it to draftsmen
engineers to build the mural.
But now,
we're taking the same instructions and
we're giving it to a computer and we end
up with this sort of generative machine
that produces an image
that can be used as mural.
And if you go to this site,
there's a lot of them.
So if you just GitHub button.
It's a really cool resource.
They have all the instructions
in this JSON file, and so
it's actually a great way if you're lost
to come back to this and just remind
yourself that simple instructions like
this can be really powerful as an image.
And these simple instructions, they're
not always super hard to come up with.
But they can still create powerful images.